# lab04
week 4 python lab

Exercises

1. Define a function that takes two formal parameters representing two numbers and returns the average of the two numbers. In the main program, reads in two numbers and stores them into two variables a and b respectively. The program then calls the function to get the average of the two numbers which are passed to the function as two actual parameters. Finally print out the average to the console. Note: you must appropriately name the function so that it reflects what the function does. As the function returns the average and is often called to get the average, it is better to name it using a noun.

2. Revise Exercise 2 in Lab 3. This time, you should define a function that reads a sequence of numbers and find the largest number in the sequence. Then the main program call the function to read a sequence of numbers and print the largest number to the console.

As the function will find the largest number, how would you pass this largest number from the function to its caller? One approach is to pass the largest number using a return statement. In this exercise, please use this approach. Think about how to name the function.

3. Revise Exercise 2 above. This time, you should pass the largest number from the function to the caller via a global variable. Think about how to name the function.

When testing the program, deliberately provide an invalid input such as 23;4 and observe how the program would behave. Note you are not required to correct this problem in this lab.

4. Define a function that takes in a single character as the parameter (the input character) and returns a new character using the following algorithm:

If the input character is an English letter, return the next letter in the English alphabet, eg, 'a' => 'b', 'X' => 'Y.
If the input character is not an english letter, return the character without change.
Hints: you may find the following functions ord and chr and string method isalpha useful.

5. Revise Exercise 1 in Lab 3. This time, the function takes a string as its formal parameter and returns the number of digits inside the string. In the main program, read a string from the user and print out the number of digits to the console. Repeat this process until the user enters "stop". How would you name the function?

Hint: you may want to use string method isdigit in this question.

6. Revise Exercise 5 above. This time, the function takes a string as as its formal parameter and extracts the digits in the string and returns the number represented by the digits. For example, if the string is "abc12de8fg23XYz", the function would return value 12823. If the string contains no digit, return 0.

In the main program, read a string from the user and print out the required number to the console. Repeat this process until the user enters "stop".

7. Revise the above exercise. This time, define a function that will take a string as its formal parameter and return a new string. The new string is generated by shifting the letters in the old string by one position in alphabetical order, eg, "abc" => "bcd", "Python is fun!" => "Qzuipo jt gvo!". You may use the function you defined in Exercise 4 above in this question.

In the main program, read a string from the user and print out the shifted string to the console. Repeat this process until the user enters "stop".

8. Revise Exercise 4 in Lab 3. This time, define a function that takes an integer number n as its formal parameter and prints out a triangle with n rows.

Place the function into a Python module named triangle.py. In the main program, call the function to print triangles with 3, 5, and 9 rows.

9. Revise Exercise 5 in Lab 2. This time, define a function that takes a number representing a temperature in Fahreinheit as its formal parameter and returns the temperature value in Celsius.

Also define a function to read a daily temperature in Fahreinheit from the user. As a daily temperature varies between -60 to 130 Fahreinheit, the function must check the input value from the user. If the input value is outside this range, force the user to enter a new temperature value. This process will continue until a correct value is entered.

In the main program, repeatedly read a temperature value in Fahreinheit and then call the function to get its equivalent in Celsius and print it out to the console. This process ends when the user enters "end".
